# Limit Plots

This repository contains macros run by ROOT that will construct MOEDAL Style limit plots.

Each one of these macros is used for specific cases and particles including: dyons, highly electrically charged particles (HECO), and monopoles. Additionally, these macros require the Cross_Section_Limits.csv and Scaled_Cross_Section.csv files which must contain: mass (Gev), magnetic charge (gD), electric charge (e), spin, and cross section limit (fb) in the first 5 columns of the csv file in that order. 

The macros will produce plots with the information given by the csv files, and within the macro there is an option to plot only the lines that give a mass limit (two corresponding lines that intersect). Additionally, the macro will also output a csv file containing all the mass limit intersection information. It should be noted that, the mass limit information is obtained by linear interpolation. 

The inital chunk of code in each macro is dedicated to manual user inputs settings, which includes: name of the csv files it needs to read, the name of the intersection csv file that will be outputted, Center of Mass Energy (TeV) values and inverse cross section (fb^{-1}) values that the experiment used. Additionally, there is a yes or no (y/n) option that will tell the macro to either plot all the data points or only the data points that resulted in a mass limit intersection. Aside from the initial chunk, there are a few settings which the user should be aware of that dictates the position of all the legends and labels shown on the plot and the x and y axis range. These parameters will need to be manipulated from time to time to move the labels away from obstructing the actual plot itself. The Center of Mass Energy and Cross Section value labels are initalized as the "title1" variable and instruction for changing its position can be found in the comments near the actual line of code where this variable pointer is initalized. Similarly, the MoEDAL title, MoEDAL logo, left side legend, right side legend, and the upper right charge label (if applicable) are initialized as "title2", "l", "legend1", "legend2", and "chargelabel" respectively. Changing the text in these labels are pretty self-explainatory if the user is familiar with ROOT and know which variable pointers are assigned to the object they are trying to edit. Additionally, near the initialization of these variables, there is commented instructions to help with any changes the user needs to make. To change the x and y ranges in the plots, the user must find the line "plot -> GetYaxis() -> SetRangeUser(a,b);" or "plot -> GetXaxis() -> SetLimits(c,d);". These 2 lines would dictate the range of the axis of your plot. a,b,c,d can be set to specific values, but for the y-axis, there is an option to automatically adjust the range based on the data point values. To use this automatic range setting, set a and b as "ymin_auto", "ymax_auto" variables (if applicable). 

To run these macros, there must be 2 csv files in the same directory containing the Cross Section Limit and Scaled Cross Section information. The first columns of the csv files must be mass (GeV), magnetic charge (g_{D}), electric charge (e), spin, and cross-section limit (fb) respectively. Additionally, the MoEDAL logo image named "MoEDAL-logo.png" must also be present in the same directory. After running the macro, there will be a set of plots produced using the csv file information and the naming convention of the plots are defined in the last little chunck of each macro. For example, plotting dyons would create plots with the naming convetion "spin_magnetic charge_lowest-highest electric charge.png", where spin, magnetic charge, lowest electric charge, and highest electric charge are numerical values. Also, a csv file will be produced containing the (x,y) position of all the mass limit intersections found within the data. Again, these intersections are determined using linear interpolation methods.

plot_heco_highcharges.C, plot_heco_lowcharges.C, plot_dyons_highcharges.C, and plot_dyons_lowcharges.C behave very similar to the main plotting codes where it would plot the data you feed and export plots and their mass limit intersection points. The main purpose of these macros is the disply the behavior difference between the high and low electrical charges. These code require a seperate csv file (in the same format as the other csv files) which contains either only high or low electrical charge data. These "special" csv files can be produce either manually or the user can use the high_low_charge_csv_split.C file to seperate the main Cross_Section_Limit.csv and Scaled_Cross_Section.csv file into 4 different files named Cross_Section_Limit_highcharges.csv, Cross_Section_Limit_lowcharges.csv, Scaled_Cross_Section_highcharges.csv and Scaled_Cross_Section_lowcharges.csv. The sorting algorithm is very simple. The user can set a low limit and higher limit for the electrical charge, and the macro would sort the data into new csv files based on these limits. The resulting high/low charge csv files can be used for the the high/low charges plotting macros.

This is my first time at creating ROOT macros, so the code it self might not be straight-forward nor streamlined. If there is any questions regarding these set of macros please e-mail me at zhigu@ualberta.ca and I'd be happy to answer them.
